Docs: Write the Quick Start guide. (#15742)
ckeditor/ckeditor5: docs/getting-started/quick-start.md

order: 10
menu-title: Quick Start
meta-title: Quick Start | CKEditor 5 documentation
meta-description: Learn the fastest way to install a powerful, rich text WYSIWYG editor - CKEditor 5 - in your web application using npm.
---

# Quick Start

> CKEditor&nbsp;5 is a powerful, rich text editor you can embed in your web app. This guide will show you the fastest way to start using it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CKEditor&nbsp;5 is a powerful, rich text editor you can embed in your web application. This guide will show you the fastest way to start using it.
```

Author: Tbh, I don't know why I used two different notations - I'll change it.

## Try CKEditor&nbsp;5 builder

> Check out the builder to quickly get a taste of CKEditor&nbsp;5. It offers an easy-to-use user interface to help you configure and download the editor suited to your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check out our interactive builder to quickly get a taste of CKEditor&nbsp;5. It offers an easy-to-use interface to help you configure, preview and download the editor suited to your needs.
```

## Installing CKEditor&nbsp;5 using npm

<info-box>

**Prerequisites:**

* [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) in version 18 or above.
* An initialized Node.js project.
* Basic familiarity with a terminal.

</info-box>

Before running any command, make sure that your Node.js version is up-to-date. Check if you are in the proper working directory with the initialized Node.js project. Then, run the following command:

```bash
npm install ckeditor5
```

> The command will install the main CKEditor&nbsp;5 open-source package alongside essential plugins. You can import all the modules from the `ckeditor5` package. Additionally, you need to import UI translations and CSS styles separately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The command will install the main CKEditor&nbsp;5 open-source package containing essential plugins.

Now you can import all the modules from the `ckeditor5` package. Additionally, you need import CSS styles and optionally import and register UI translations.
```

order: 10
menu-title: Quick Start
meta-title: Quick Start | CKEditor 5 documentation
meta-description: Learn the fastest way to install a powerful, rich text WYSIWYG editor - CKEditor 5 - in your web application using npm.
---

# Quick Start

CKEditor&nbsp;5 is a powerful, rich text editor you can embed in your web application. This guide will show you the fastest way to start using it.

## Try CKEditor&nbsp;5 builder

Check out our interactive builder to quickly get a taste of CKEditor&nbsp;5. It offers an easy-to-use user interface to help you configure, preview, and download the editor suited to your needs.

## Installing CKEditor&nbsp;5 using npm

<info-box>

**Prerequisites:**

* [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) in version 18 or above.
* An initialized Node.js project.
* Basic familiarity with a terminal.

</info-box>

> Before running any command, make sure that your Node.js version is up-to-date. Check if you are in the proper working directory with the initialized Node.js project. Then, run the following command:

Reviewer 2: I think we are playing it too safe, and it's obsolete to mention the `up-to-date`  and working directory :grin:

```bash

> npm install ckeditor5

Reviewer 2: +1 I think we need to make all docs npm first.

```

> The command will install the main CKEditor&nbsp;5 open-source package containing essential plugins.

Reviewer 2: essential => all open-source plugins

Author: I know there are all plugins, but for simplicity's sake, the snippet only contains essentials. However, it may be misleading, so I'll rewrite this.

After that, you can import all the modules from the `ckeditor5` package. Additionally, you have to import CSS styles separately. Importing and registering UI translations is optional.

```js
import { ClassicEditor, Essentials, Bold, Italic, Heading, Paragraph } from 'ckeditor5';

> import translations from 'ckeditor5/dist/translations/en.js';

Reviewer 3: English translations are "built-in" there is no need to import them (worth mention?).

Maybe would be good to pass translation other then `en.js`, maybe `de.js` or any else?

Author: I added a patriotic accent ;)

import 'ckeditor5/dist/styles.css';

await ClassicEditor
	.create( document.querySelector( '#editor' ), {
		plugins: [ Essentials, Bold, Italic, Heading, Paragraph ],
		toolbar: {
			items: [ 'undo', 'redo', '|', 'heading', '|', 'bold', 'italic' ]
		},
		translations
	} )
	.catch( err => {
		console.error( err );
	} );
```

Pass the imported plugins inside the configuration to the {@link module:editor-classic/classiceditor~ClassicEditor#create `create()`} method. The first argument in this function is a DOM element for the editor placement, so you need to add it to your HTML page.

```html
<div id="editor">
	<h1>Hello from CKEditor 5!</h1>
</div>
```

That is all the code you need to see a bare-bone editor running in a web browser.

> 

Reviewer 2: I think we need to create a section with adding some premium plugins after this fast start.

`npm install ckeditor5-premium-features`, and some example plugin, and licenseKey.

Author: That solves the problem of one complicated code snippet. Good idea.

order: 10
menu-title: Quick Start
meta-title: Quick Start | CKEditor 5 documentation
meta-description: Learn the fastest way to install a powerful, rich text WYSIWYG editor - CKEditor 5 - in your web application using npm.
---

# Quick Start

CKEditor&nbsp;5 is a powerful, rich text editor you can embed in your web application. This guide will show you the fastest way to start using it.

## Try CKEditor&nbsp;5 builder

Check out our interactive builder to quickly get a taste of CKEditor&nbsp;5. It offers an easy-to-use user interface to help you configure, preview, and download the editor suited to your needs.

## Installing CKEditor&nbsp;5 using npm

<info-box>

**Prerequisites:**

* [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) in version 18 or above.

> * An initialized Node.js project.

Reviewer 2: I'm nitpicking, but I wonder if someone from outside JS world, will understand this. What do we mean by Node.js project? Maybe we could be a bit more descriptive, like a folder where JavaScript dependencies will be installed, or just show the snippet as a bit longer (as [Remix](https://remix.run/docs/en/main/start/quickstart#installation)).

```shell
mkdir ckeditor5-test
cd ckeditor5-test
npm init -y
npm install ckeditor5
```

Author: Considering that users rarely read carefully, the snippet may be better.

Reviewer: I think it's reasonable to require an existing Node.js project if someone is using **this** installation method. How many people will actually create a whole new project to use CKEditor?

I'd skip the prerequisites section entirely and go straight to `npm install ckeditor5`. This is what most libraries do, and IMO it will be less confusing and more straightforward for the majority of developers.

Examples:
https://handsontable.com/docs/javascript-data-grid/installation/
https://supabase.com/docs/reference/javascript/installing
https://www.chartjs.org/docs/latest/getting-started/installation.html
https://rollupjs.org/introduction/
https://orm.drizzle.team/docs/get-started-sqlite#better-sqlite3

Reviewer 2: Sounds good!

Author: I forgot that we don't have a framework like Remix or Next.js. CKEditor is a framework, sure. But it's more like a package added to an existing project. I agree that few people will start from scratch, contrary to Remix or Next.js.

* Basic familiarity with a terminal.

</info-box>

In your initialized Node.js project, run the following command:

```bash
npm install ckeditor5
```

The command will install the main CKEditor&nbsp;5 package containing all open-source plugins.

After that, you can import all the modules from the `ckeditor5` package. Additionally, you have to import CSS styles separately. **Importing and registering UI translations is optional for the English language.** For any other language, use imported translations, as in the example below.

```js
import { ClassicEditor, Essentials, Bold, Italic, Heading, Paragraph } from 'ckeditor5';

> import translations from 'ckeditor5/dist/translations/pl.js';

Reviewer 2: I would comment out this line but keep, I think I wouldn't want people to see their first editor in Polish :D We could pick Spanish as a second largest for native speakers.

import 'ckeditor5/dist/styles.css';

await ClassicEditor
	.create( document.querySelector( '#editor' ), {
		plugins: [ Essentials, Bold, Italic, Heading, Paragraph ],
		toolbar: {
			items: [ 'undo', 'redo', '|', 'heading', '|', 'bold', 'italic' ]
		},

> 		translations

Reviewer 2: This would need to be commented out as well :thinking:
